## Working title Mars 2020 special PR: Jezero map and virtual views

Explore the landing site of the Mars 2020 Exploration Rover “Perseverance” in an interactive map loaded with orbital imagery, terrain data and 3D panoramic views of Jezero crater and its surrounding area. The map allows fast zooming and panning for the exploration of the available data in scale levels from far away until  centimeter-scale detail. The sidebar in the left provides additional geometry layers and associated information. As the basemap you have the choice between a combined colourised high-resolution image mosaic of three different camera experiments and a combination of available digital terrain models of the area (see below for a detailed technical description). By clicking on one of the several marker symbols you find yourself traveling to a virtual 3D scene of that respective viewpoint, with the possibility to watch it in a Virtual Reality (VR) environment (VR equipment required). Load it from your mobile phone, and the rotation of the scene will follow the movements of your phone!

The NASA Mars 2020 mission is en route to Mars since July 30th 2020. On board: The NASA rover “Perseverance”, the most complex equipment ever sent to Mars. Besides numerous scientific instruments, it will carry containers for a drill core sample collection that will be left on Mars for a later return to Earth carried out by follow-up missions planned for the 2030s. The approximately one metric ton heavy vehicle is set to land on 18 February 2021 at 21:55 CET in Jezero crater and will then start the search for traces of microbial life. The working group at Freie Universitaet Berlin is involved with Prof. Jaumann, serving as Co-Investigator on the Mastcam Z instrument. “Ingenuity” is the name of a 1.8 kg heavy helicopter drone onboard the rover that will be used as near field reconnaissance instrument.

Jezero crater was chosen for a good reason as landing site. Two ancient river deltas can be found inside the crater. Within the delta deposits, numerous water-bearing minerals have been found, indicating, that liquid water was once present for an extended period of time. Jezero is a 49 km wide impact crater, bordering the giant Isidis impact basin and is Noachian in age, dating back 3.9 billion years before present. Its size corresponds roughly the size of Mauritius. It once contained a paleolake that was fed by large regional watersheds. Two inlet valleys, Neretva Vallis and Sava Vallis can be spotted, entering the crater in the northern and northeastern part and ending in the deltas. Here, water-bearing clay minerals and particularly carbonates were discovered. These minerals have a high potential of conserving and retaining biosignatures over long time spans. The former presence of liquid water and the large carbonate deposits here make Jezero a perfect destination for the search for possible traces of presumabely extinct life on Mars.

The outflow channel Pliva Vallis breaks through the eastern crater rim surpassing a swell. Using altitude measurements from crater rim, crater floor, swell and upper edge of the delta, the potential depth of the lake can be deduced, resulting in roughly 250 m water depth. This would result in a minimum lake water volume of 220 km3 and a maximum of 340 km3 (see corresponding images). However, as the deltas have been severely eroded since water activity ceased approximately 3.8 billion years ago, it is no longer possible to make precise assessments. Also, the crater was filled with very extensive lava flows from the nearby Syrtis Major volcanic region about 300 million years later.

The Mountain View viewpoint offers a perfect vista into the crater. This viewpoint is located on top of the large hill southeast of the crater. From here, the observer can see that the northern part of the crater floor is sloping and that the northern crater rim is clearly less defined, compared to the flat, smooth crater floor in the south and the much steeper southern crater rim flanks. This appearance originates from the erosion of material in the catchment areas to the north of the crater, which was then transported into the crater basin itself and deposited in the deltas. Also contributing to the asymmetrical topography is the erosion of the northern crater rim, caused by the river valleys breaking through the flank of Jezero.

For a full screen view of the Jezero map server, follow this link: https://maps.planet.fu-berlin.de/jezero

### Data processing
For the Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover landing site at Jezero crater special PR release, a variety of data form the Mars Express (MEx) and Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) were utilised. The HRSC HMC30 products produced by the Global Topography and Mosaics Task Group (GTMTG) of the HRSC Science Team serve as a reference dataset all other datasets were registered to. The original HMC30 product tiles can be downloaded here (http://hrscteam.dlr.de/HMC30) and browsed in an interactive map environment here (https://maps.planet.fu-berlin.de). A number of higher resolution image data from the Context Camera (CTX) on board MRO were incorporated in the basemap. In total, 33 CTX swaths having an average resolution of 6 m/px were orthorectified and co-registered to the HRSC data by bundle adjustment, using the USGS Integrated Software for Imagers and Spectrometers (ISIS) (https://isis.astrogeology.usgs.gov/). After this geometric alignment, the CTX images were radiometrically normalised using the HRSC grayscale mosaic as a brightness reference. The colour information was transferred from the 50 m/px HRSC mosaic to the highly resolved CTX data by pan-sharpening. The existing HiRISE image mosaic of an even higher resolution of 0.5 m/px (available at https://doi.org/10.5066/P9QJDP48), created by the USGS Astrogeology Science Center in the course of the Terrain Relative Navigation (TRN) project for the rover, has already been aligned very well to the HRSC base dataset. HRSC colour has also been applied to the otherwise grayscale HiRISE dataset using pan-sharpening. The DTM basemap was combined from the HMC30 mosaic tile and the existing HiRISE DTM mosaic from the TRN project as available here (https://doi.org/10.5066/P906QQT8).

### Image Credits
Images: ESA/DLR/FU Berlin, CC BY-SA 3.0 IGO

Copyright Notice:
Images and mapserver are licenced under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 IGO (CC BY-SA 3.0 IGO) licence. The user is allowed to reproduce, distribute, adapt, translate and publicly perform it, without explicit permission, provided that the content is accompanied by an acknowledgement that the source is credited as 'ESA/DLR/FU Berlin', a direct link to the licence text is provided and that it is clearly indicated if changes were made to the original content. Adaptation / translation / derivatives must be distributed under the same licence terms as this publication.

The High Resolution Stereo Camera was developed at the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and built in collaboration with partners in industry (EADS Astrium, Lewicki Microelectronic GmbH and Jena-Optronik GmbH). The science team, which is headed by Principal Investigator (PI) Thomas Roatsch, consists of 52 co-investigators from 34 institutions and 11 countries. The camera is operated by the DLR Institute of Planetary Research in Berlin-Adlershof.

Watch the Mars 2020 landing live here:
https://mars.nasa.gov/mars2020/timeline/landing/
