Neretva Vallis is an inflow channel that created a delta on the western
and northwestern rim of the crater, which are also considered evidence for
the existence of a former lake. Perseverance will examine the larger of
the two in the west in more detail.

Sava Vallis is an inflow channel that created a delta on the western and
northwestern rim of the crater, which are also considered evidence for the
existence of a former lake. Perseverance will examine the larger of the
two in the west in more detail.

Pliva Vallis in the east of Jezero Crater is the outflow channel through
which water was discharged from the crater. This is why this former crater
lake is referred to as an ‘open basin lake’. These lakes were once
numerous on Mars. Compared to closed basins (with inflow but no outflow),
they are interesting because they were freshwater lakes with a stable
water level. Lakes in closed basins, on the other hand, were subjected to
more frequent periods of drying out, which turned them into salt lakes,
thus making them less promising in the search for conditions that are
conducive to life.

Delta basement oder delta top
Volcanic minerals, carbonates and clay minerals have been found both in
the delta and elsewhere in the crater. Some carbonates are thought to have
been formed directly in the lake. Such lake carbonates and especially the
clay minerals indicate freshwater conditions that enable life and have the
potential to preserve biosignatures particularly well in their interior.
However, other types of minerals have also been discovered there, namely
those that paint a different picture of the crater lake. These include
sulphates that contain iron oxide, amorphous silicon oxides and
hydroxides, which tend to form in acidic waters that gradually dried up.
These minerals indicate that the environmental conditions in Jezero Crater
became drier and less conducive to life at a later stage. But even among
these minerals there are some in which biosignatures can be very well
preserved.
